# Module 3 Challenge - Python Analysis

## Background
* It's time to put away the Excel sheet and enter the world of programming with Python.
* In this assignment, you'll use the concepts you've learned to complete two Python challenges, PyBank and PyPoll.
* Both tasks present a real-world situation where your newly developed Python scripting skills come in handy.

## PyBank Instructions
* In this Challenge, you are tasked with creating a Python script to analyze the financial records of your company.
* You will be given a financial dataset called budget_data.csv.
* The dataset is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses".

### Your task is to create a Python script that analyzes the records to calculate each of the following values: 
* The total number of months included in the dataset
* The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period
* The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes
* The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
* The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

### Your analysis should align with the following results:
* Total Months: 86
* Total: $22564198
* Average Change: $-8311.11
* Greatest Increase in Profits: Aug-16 ($1862002)
* Greatest Decrease in Profits: Feb-14 ($-1825558)

### In addition, your final script should both print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.

## PyPoll Instructions
* In this Challenge, you are tasked with helping a small, rural town modernize its vote-counting process.
* You will be given a set of poll data called election_data.csv.
* The dataset is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate".

### Your task is to create a Python script that analyzes the votes and calculates each of the following values: 
* The total number of votes cast
* A complete list of candidates who received votes
* The percentage of votes each candidate won
* The total number of votes each candidate won
* The winner of the election based on popular vote.

### Your analysis should align with the following results:
* Total Votes: 369711
* Charles Casper Stockham: 23.049% (85213)
* Diana DeGette: 73.812% (272892)
* Raymon Anthony Doane: 3.139% (11606)
* Winner: Diana DeGette

### In addition, your final script should both print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.

## Requirements

### Correctly Reads in the CSV (10 points)
* Reads in the CSVs for both PyBank and PyPoll using Python (5 points)
* Successfully stores the header row (5 points)

### Results Printed out to correctly to terminal (40 points)
### PyBank:
* Total Months (5 points)
* Total (5 points)
* Average Change (5 points)
* Greatest Increase (5 points)
* Greatest Decrease (5 points)
### PyPoll:
* Total Votes (5 points)
* Each candidate’s total votes and percent of votes (5 points)
* Winner (5 points)

### Code Runs Error Free (10 points)
* Error Free (5 points)
* Producing consistent results (5 points)

### Exports results to text file (30 points)
### PyBank:
* Total Months (2.5 points)
* Total (2.5 points)
* Average Change (5 points)
* Greatest Increase (5 points)
* Greatest Decrease (5 points)
### PyPoll:
* Total Votes (2.5 points)
* Each candidate’s total votes and percent of votes (2.5 points)
* Winner (5 points)

### Code is cleaned and commented (10 points)
* Has additional tests and debugging removed (5 points)
* Commented (5 points)

## Grading

### This assignment will be evaluated against the requirements and assigned a grade according to the following table:

Grade Points

A (+/-)	90+

B (+/-)	80–89

C (+/-)	70–79

D (+/-)	60–69

F (+/-)	< 60

## References
* Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
* Writing to File in Python. (2023, February 28). Geeks for Geeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/writing-to-file-in-python/